
Article VIII
============

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
------------------------

SECTION VIII-1.  POWERS AND DUTIES.
-----------------------------------

The Planning Commission shall have the power conferred upon it by the general laws of the State of Ohio to frame or adopt a plan or plans for dividing the Municipality or any portion thereof into zones or districts representing the recommendations of the Commission in the interests of public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare for the limitation and regulation of height, the bulk and location, (including the percentage of lot occupancy, setback building lines, side lines and area and dimensions of yards, courts and other open spaces,) and the uses of buildings and other structures and/or premises in such zones and districts.

It shall adopt and recommend to the Council a comprehensive plan for the physical development of the Municipality, or the redevelopment of any area or district therein, which shall include the location of public ways, property, bridges, schools, utilities, buildings, parks, playgrounds, and recreation areas.
Further, the Commission shall be required to make and keep maps or plans of the whole or any portion of the Municipality.  It shall be required more specifically that such maps and plans shall show the Commission's recommendations for general location, character and extent of streets, alleys, ways, viaducts, bridges, waterways, waterfronts, subways, boulevards, parkways, parks, playgrounds, aviation fields and other public grounds, way or open spaces; the general location and the extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication, power and other purposes; and the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use, or extension of such public ways, grounds, open spaces, buildings, property, utilities or terminals.

The Commission shall further have the powers and duties concerning control, preservation and care of historical monuments, design and location of harbors, bridges, statuary, viaducts and street fixtures and other public structures.

The Commission shall have the power to employ clerks, engineers, draftsmen and such other subordinates as it shall deem necessary for the performance of its functions; the expense for which must be within the amounts appropriated by Council to cover the services of the Commission.

SECTION VIII-2.  MEMBERS, QUALIFICATIONS, AND TERMS.
----------------------------------------------------

The Planning Commission shall consist of the Mayor, the Service Director and three (3) citizen members, holding no other elected public office and shall hold no employment with the City.  Two (2) citizen members shall be appointed by the Mayor and one (1) citizen member shall be appointed by Council, subject to the confirmation of 2/3 vote of all the members elected to Council, and shall serve for a term of five (5) years, however, upon passage of the Charter, the then existing members of the Planning Commission shall remain in office for the terms for which they were appointed.  Any vacancy occurring in the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term only and in the manner prescribed by this Charter for the original appointment.  Any appointed citizen member of the Commission may be removed by the Mayor and/or Council for cause, subject to the approval of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council, and upon complaint and a public hearing.  The Commission shall make its own rules and shall appoint a chairman and secretary.  It shall keep a journal of its proceedings and its meetings shall be open to the public at all times.
(Amended November 2, 2010)

SECTION VIII-4.  ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
-----------------------------------------

There shall be a Zoning Board of Appeals consisting of five (5) citizen members, holding no other public office.  Three (3) citizen members shall be appointed by the Mayor and two (2) citizen members shall be appointed by Council, subject to the confirmation of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council, for terms of five years each.  However, upon passage of this Charter, the then existing members of the Board of Appeals shall remain in office for the terms for which they were appointed.  Any vacancy occurring other than by expiration of term, shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term only and in the manner prescribed in this Charter, for the original appointment.  The Board shall administer the details of the application of the zoning regulations, and shall hear and determine appeals from refusal of building permits by the Building Commissioner or other officer, may permit exceptions to and variations from the district regulation and shall have any and all other powers conferred upon it by ordinance or the general laws of the State of Ohio.  The Board of Appeals may make its own rules and select its own chairman and secretary.  It shall keep a journal of its proceedings and all of its meetings shall be open to the public.

The Zoning Board of Appeals citizen members shall be removed by the Mayor for cause, subject to the approval of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council, and upon complaint and a public hearing. 
(Amended November 2, 2010)
