
Article VI
==========

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES AND DEPARTMENTS
--------------------------------------

SECTION VI-1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
----------------------------------

The following departments are hereby established by this Charter:
    *Department of Law
    *Department of Finance
    *Department of Public Safety
    *Department of Parks, Recreation and Public Lands
    *Department of Public Service
and the Council shall provide by ordinance for the organization thereof.  The Council may by ordinance establish additional offices, positions, departments, boards or divisions thereof, and provide for them as it may deem necessary.  With the exception of the Department of Finance and the Department of Law, the Council may combine or abolish existing departments and divisions as it may deem necessary, and may authorize one person to be the head of two or more departments or divisions.  The Mayor may act as the head of the Department of Public Service.
(Amended November 8, 2005)

SECTION VI-2.  DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
---------------------------------

The Director of Law shall be the head of the Department of Law, and shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council.  He may be removed from office by the Mayor, but such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council.  He shall serve the Mayor, the Council, the administrative departments, and the officers, boards and commissions of the City as legal counsel in connection with municipal affairs, and subject to the direction of the Mayor and/or Council, shall represent the City in all proceedings in court or before any administrative board.  He shall perform all other duties now or hereafter imposed upon City Solicitors under the laws of Ohio, unless otherwise provided by ordinance of the Council, and he shall perform such other duties consistent with his office as the Mayor or the Council may request.  No person shall act as Director of Law unless duly admitted to practice law in the State of Ohio.

SECTION VI-3.  DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
-------------------------------------

The Director of Finance shall be the head of the Department of Finance, and the fiscal officer of the City.  He shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council.  He may be removed from office by the Mayor, but such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council.  He shall keep the financial records of the Municipality and of all monies received and expended, of all property owned by the Municipality, and all taxes and assessments levied and received.  He shall keep and preserve such money in the place or places authorized by ordinance, and shall disburse the same as may be required by law or ordinance.
He shall not allow the amount set aside for any appropriation to be overdrawn or drawn for any other purpose.
He shall examine and audit the accounts of all other officers, employees and departments prior to the close of the fiscal year, or whenever required by Council.
He shall require evidence that the amount of any claim presented to him is due.
He shall be responsible for the preparation and submission to Council of appropriation measures, and shall assist the Mayor and Council in the preparation of estimates, budgets and other financial matters, and at all times, keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the Municipality, and shall perform all other duties required by the Charter, the Mayor, or by ordinance of the Council, consistent with his office.

SECTION VI-4.  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
-------------------------------------------

The Director of Public Safety shall be the head of the Department of Public Safety and shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council.  He may be removed from office by the Mayor, but such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council, provided, however, that if the Mayor acts as Safety Director, the Council may, by a vote of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council remove him as such Safety Director, and thereupon another Safety Director shall be appointed.
The Director of Public Safety shall be the head of the Division of Police, Division of Fire, Division of Building Engineering and Inspection, and Division of Health.  He shall make all necessary rules and regulations for the governing of the Department of Public Safety and the several divisions thereof, and he shall be charged with the duty of enforcing all police, health, safety and sanitary regulations that may be prescribed by ordinances or rules of the Municipality, or the general laws of the State of Ohio.  The Director of Public Safety shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be required by this Charter, by ordinance of the Council, or as directed by the Mayor.

SECTION VI-5.  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE.
--------------------------------------------

The Director of Public Service shall be the head of the Department of Public Service and shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation of 2/3 vote of all the members elected to the Council.  He may be removed from office by the Mayor, but such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council, provided however, that if the Mayor acts as Service Director, the Council may, with the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council, remove him as such Service Director, and thereupon another Service Director shall be appointed.  The Director of Public Service shall have charge of all public works and improvements and the construction thereof, and all engineering and inspection in connection therewith.  He shall be charged with the construction, improvement, repair and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, bridges, wharves, docks and breakwalls; of water mains, pumps, systems, pipes, purification and filtration plants, and the water distribution system; of sewers, sewage systems, drains, ditches, culverts, streams, water courses and harbors; and of all public buildings, parks, playgrounds, cemeteries, and other public grounds.  He shall manage and control cemeteries, market houses, sewage treatment plants, water works, and all public utilities owned by the Municipality and shall enforce all the obligations of privately owned and operated public utilities enforceable by the Municipality.  He shall have charge of the preservation and care of all surveys, maps, plans, drawings and estimates for public work; the cleaning, resurfacing, repairing, sprinkling and lighting of streets and public places; the collection and disposal of waste; and the preservation of all property belonging to the Municipality and pertaining to the functions thereof.  He shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be required by this Charter, by ordinance of the Council, or as directed by the Mayor.

SECTION VI-6.  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PUBLIC LANDS.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Director of Parks, Recreation and Public Lands shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation of 2/3 vote of all the members elected to the Council.  He may be removed from office by the Mayor, but such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to the Council.
The Director of Parks, Recreation and Public Lands shall have charge of all administrative work in planning, organizing and directing the parks, recreation and public lands programs and services.  Work involves responsibility for developing and administering a comprehensive parks and recreation program.  Work requires the development and planning of public lands and facilities and programs to meet the needs of the City.
The Director of Parks, Recreation and Public Lands shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be required by this Charter, by ordinance of the Council, or as directed by the Mayor.  (Added November 7, 2000)
