Article X
=========

FISCAL MATTERS
--------------

SECTION X-1.  FINANCES.
-----------------------

The Director of Finance and the Mayor shall furnish a fiscal report of revenues, expenditures, and appropriation balances to each member of Council, in writing, not later than the 15th day of February of each year.

The Director of Finance and the Mayor shall also furnish to Council, not later than the second regular meeting of the month of March of each calendar year, an ordinance making appropriation for the expenditures of the Municipality during the year.  Such ordinance shall be adopted by Council in its original form or with such revisions as it may find proper.

Such appropriation ordinance shall be in such form and detail as may be required by the general laws of the State of Ohio, and may be amended or supplemented by Council after its passage, but appropriations shall not be made in excess of the estimated revenues of the Municipality.  The Council may make preliminary appropriations for current expenses sufficient in the amount to meet the current needs until the annual appropriation ordinance has been enacted and is in effect.

The passage of an ordinance authorizing the issue or sales of bonds or notes of the Municipality shall constitute an appropriation of the proceeds thereof, to this purpose for which said bonds or notes are issued.
(Amended 11-2-04)

SECTION X-2.  TRANSFERS AND BALANCES.
-------------------------------------
The Council may transfer, during the current year, any part of an unencumbered balance of an appropriation to any other purpose or object for which the appropriation therefor, has proven insufficient, or may authorize a transfer of money to be made between items appropriated to the same office or department, except as follows:
(a)   No transfer shall be made from any bond or note fund, except that the unencumbered or unexpended balance of such fund no longer needed for the purpose for which such fund was created, shall be transferred to the fund from which said bonds or notes are to be paid.
(b)   No transfer shall be made of money raised or appropriated for the payment of any bond or note of the Municipality unless all indebtedness, interest and obligations, which can lawfully be paid from such money, have been paid.

At the close of each fiscal year, the unencumbered balance of each appropriation other than the appropriations of bond and note funds, shall revert to the fund from which it was appropriated and shall be subject to future appropriation, except otherwise provided in the next paragraph of this section.

A fund to be known as the Improvement Fund may be maintained in the Treasury into which Municipal moneys may be appropriated or allocated from time to time by action of Council, and which shall then become and remain separated and distinct from general funds.  Improvement Fund moneys may be advanced or expended from time to time by action of Council for public improvements not otherwise provided for.

SECTION X-3.  PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
--------------------------------

No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, nor shall any obligation for the expenditures of money be incurred, except pursuant to appropriations made by Council.
The Director of Finance and/or the Mayor shall have the power to require evidence that the amount of each claim is justly due and is in conformity to law and Municipal legislation relating thereto.  For that purpose they may summon before them any officer, agent of any department, or employee of any department of the Municipality, and examine him under oath or affirmation relative thereto.

SECTION X-4.  CUSTODY AND DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
-------------------------------------------

The Council shall by ordinance provide for the custody of all funds of the Municipality and for the deposit of funds as provided by the Uniform Depository Act of the State of Ohio.  All funds received on behalf of the Municipality by any officer, employee or agent thereof, shall be promptly paid over to the Director of Finance of the Municipality, and by him promptly placed in the depository bank.  Council, however, may authorize such sums as it deems proper to be kept in cash for the daily operations of any department or office.

Active, inactive and/or interim funds in the Treasury of the Municipality depository may be invested from time to time in such manner as is now or hereafter may be authorized by the general laws of the State of Ohio for the investment of active, inactive and/or interim funds of the Municipality.  (Amended 11-4-86)

SECTION X-5.  CERTIFICATION OF EXPENDITURES.
--------------------------------------------

No contract, agreement, or other obligation involving the expenditure of money shall be entered into, nor shall any ordinance, resolution, or order for the expenditure of money be passed, or issued, by Council, or be authorized by any officer of the Municipality unless the Director of Finance shall have certified in writing that the money required for such contract, agreement, obligation or expenditure is in the Treasury to the credit of the fund from which it is to be drawn and not appropriated for any other purpose.  The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prevent the making of contracts for a period extending beyond a single fiscal year, when such contracts are otherwise authorized by the Constitution of the State of Ohio, by this Charter, or by general laws of the State of Ohio.  All moneys actually in the Treasury to the credit of the fund from which they are to be drawn and all moneys applicable to the payment of the obligation or appropriation involved that are anticipated to come into the Treasury before the maturity of such contract, agreement, or obligation from taxes, assessments, license fees or from the sales of service, products, or byproducts of any Municipal undertaking, and moneys derived from lawfully authorized bonds or notes shall for the purpose of certification be deemed to be in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriate fund, and shall be subject to such certification.

SECTION X-6.  PUBLIC BIDDING.
-----------------------------

No expenditure, other than the compensation of persons employed by the City, shall be made in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the State competitive bidding requirements, except pursuant to a contract made with the person, firm or corporation whom Council determines to be the lowest and best, responsible bidder, after public advertising and receipt of bids in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Ohio.
(Amended November 5, 1996)

SECTION X-7.  FRANCHISES.
-------------------------

The Council, by ordinance, may grant permission to any person, firm or corporation to construct and operate a public utility in, on, across, under or above any public street or ground within the Municipality.  It may prescribe in the ordinance the kind and quality of service or product to be furnished, the rate or rates to be charged therefor, and any other terms conducive to the public interest.  Such grant may by action of Council be amended or renewed in the mannner and subject to the provisions established by this Charter for original grants.  Such grant, amendment, or renewal, shall be for such period of time as Council may determine, and shall not be perpetual or exclusive.

No consent of the owner of property abutting on any public street or ground shall be necessary to the effectiveness of any grant, amendment, or renewal, unless the construction or operation of the public utility authorized thereby is of such character as to constitute an additional burden upon such public street or ground.  All such grants, amendments or renewals shall be made subject to the continuing right of council to provide reasonable regulations for the operation of such utilities with reference to such streets and public grounds, including the right to require such reconstruction, relocation or discontinuance of appliances, plant or equipment used in such streets or public grounds as shall, in the opinion of Council, be necessary to the public interest.

SECTION X-8.  TAXATION AND FINANCES.
------------------------------------
The laws of Ohio relating generally to taxes, budgets, appropriations, deposits, expenditures, debts, bonds, contracts and other fiscal matters of the Municipality shall be applicable to this City except as modified by, or necessarily inconsistent with, the provisions of this Charter.
Provided, however, that in the event the Council should levy an income tax, the ordinance levying said income tax shall not become effective until the same shall be approved by a favorable vote of the people.
(Amended November 7, 1967)
