
Article V
=========

THE COUNCIL
-----------

SECTION V-1.  POWERS, NUMBER AND TERMS.
---------------------------------------

All the legislative powers of the City of Eastlake, except as limited by this Charter and the Constitution of Ohio, shall be vested in a Council of seven (7) members of whom three (3) members shall be elected at-large and four (4) members of which shall be elected from wards, one from each ward. 
Ward Council members shall serve for a term of four (4) years, beginning on the first day of January next following their election and until their successors are elected and qualified.  At- large members of Council shall also serve for a term of  four (4) years.  In November, 2009 and every four (4) years thereafter, the top three (3) elected at-large Council persons will commence on January 1, 2010 and every four (4) years thereafter.
(Amended November 8, 2005)

SECTION V-2.  QUALIFICATIONS.
-----------------------------

No person shall be eligible to be a member of Council unless he shall have been continuously a resident and qualified elector of the Municipality for at least three (3) years immediately prior to his election or appointment.  No person shall continue to serve as a member of Council unless during his term of office, he shall continue to be a resident and a qualified elector of the Municipality, and, if elected or appointed from a Ward, shall continue to be a resident and qualified elector of his Ward.  He shall not hold any other elected public office or employment with the City, except that of a notary public.  No member of Council shall be interested in the profits or emoluments of any contract, job, work, or service for which monies of the Municipality are, or will be expended.  No member of Council shall be eligible for employment with the City until one year after the end of their term, resignation or recall.
This provision shall not restrict employment as an officer or employee in the Civil Service of the City, as provided in Article VII of the Charter.
(Amended November 8, 2005)

SECTION V-3.  REMOVAL.
----------------------

The Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its own members.  It may punish, or remove from the Council any member for gross misconduct, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, disqualification for office, or for the conviction while in office of a crime involving moral turpitude, or for a violation of his oath of office, or persistent failure to abide by the rules of the Council or absence without justifiable excuse from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the Couuncil, provided however, that such punishment or expulsion shall not take place without the concurrence of 2/3 of all the members elected to Council; nor until the accused member shall have been notified in writing of the charge against him, at least ten (10) days in advance of a public hearing upon such charge, at which he or his counsel shall have been given an opportunity to be heard, present evidence and examine any witness appearing in support of, or against such charge.

SECTION V-4.  VACANCIES.
------------------------

Whenever the office of a Councilperson shall become vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of all the remaining members of Council.  If the vacancy shall not be filled within thirty (30) days thereof, the Mayor shall fill it by appointment.  Each Councilperson so elected or appointed to fill a vacancy, shall hold the office for the unexpired term.
(Amended November 6, 2012)

SECTION V-5.  MEETINGS AND ORGANIZATION.
----------------------------------------

On the first Tuesday on or after January 3, 2002, occurring after each regular municipal election, Council shall meet at a meeting place as designated by Council for the purpose of organization.  Thereafter, Council shall meet in regular session at such times as may be prescribed by its rules, regulations, ordinances or by-laws, but shall hold regular meetings, at least twice during each calendar month of the year, with the exception of July and August, when during each of said months, the Council may, at its discretion, dispense with one of its regular meetings.  All meetings of Council or any other municipal bodies, as defined by Section 112.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Eastlake, shall be subject to the “Public Meeting” provision of Chapter 112 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Eastlake, and any amendment thereto.
(Amended November 7, 2000)

SECTION V-6.  PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
-----------------------------------

The Council shall at the time of its organization and every two (2) years thereafter choose one of its members as President of Council, who shall preside at all regular and special meetings of Council.  When the Mayor is absent or inaccessible, or, for any reason, unable to perform his duties as Mayor, the President of Council shall become the acting Mayor, and while so acting shall have and exercise all the powers of the Mayor, but shall not cease to be a Councilman, nor in any case shall he lose his right to vote as a member of Council.  In case of death, resignation or removal of the Mayor, the President of Council shall cease to be a Councilman, and shall become Mayor for the unexpired term.
(Amended November 6, 2012)

SECTION V-7.  VICE-PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
----------------------------------------

Council shall at the same meeting and in the same manner and for a like term of two (2) years, choose another of its members as vice-president of Council.  The Vice-President of Council shall retain his right to vote, even while acting as President of Council as herein provided, and shall exercise all of the powers and perform all the duties of the President in case of a temporary absence or disability of the President and shall succeed to the office of President in case of any vacancy therein, and in such event, Council shall, in the same manner, elect a new Vice-President to serve until his successor shall be elected and assume office.
(Added November 7, 2000)

SECTION V-8.  CLERK OF COUNCIL.
-------------------------------

The Council shall choose a Clerk of Council and such other assistants as it shall determine from time to time; but the Council may designate the Director of Finance as the Clerk of the Council.  The Clerk of Council shall keep the Journal of the proceedings of the Council and its records, and perform such other duties as Council may from time to time require.

SECTION V-9.  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
-------------------------------

Special meetings of Council may be called by a vote of Council taken at any regular or special meetings; or special meetings may be called by the Mayor and shall be called by the Clerk of Council upon the written request of three members of Council.  Any such vote or request, for the calling of a special meeting, shall state the subject or subjects to be considered at the meeting and no other subject or subjects shall be there considered, except on the approval of five (5) or more of the members of Council in attendance at the special meeting.  Twelve (12) hours notice in writing of such special meeting, shall be given to each member of Council and the Mayor by personal service, or by leaving same at their usual places of residence; except that the members of Council shall be held to have waived such notice by their attendance at the special meeting.

SECTION V-10.  QUORUM.
----------------------

Two-thirds of all the members elected to Council shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by the rules of Council.

SECTION V-11.  PROCEDURE OF COUNCIL.
------------------------------------

The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business consistent with this Charter.  Council shall keep a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.  All legislative action, shall be by ordinance or resolution, except when otherwise required by the Constitution or the laws of the State of Ohio, but departmental procedure and administrative matters may be transacted by motion recorded on the Journal.  On the passage of every ordinance or resolution, the vote shall be taken by yeas and nays which shall be entered on the Journal.  No  ordinance or resolution shall be passed without the concurrence of a majority of all the members elected to Council.  Every ordinance and resolution shall be fully and distinctly read on three different days, unless 3/4 of all the members elected to Council vote to suspend this rule, taken by yeas and nays and entered on the Journal.  An ordinance after having been fully read on its first reading may be read by title only on the second and third readings thereof, unless otherwise requested by any member of Council.  No ordinance or resolution shall contain more than one subject, and such subject shall be clearly expressed in its title.  Council may provide for the revision, rearrangement and codification of the ordinances of the Municipality or any portion thereof, at such time as Council may determine.  All ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations, notices and reports, required by law, or by this Charter, or by ordinances of Council to be published, may either be posted in five (5) of the most public places in the Municipality, as determined by Council for a period of not less than fifteen (15) days, or be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality, once a week for two consecutive weeks, as the Council may determine.  All ordinances or resolutions upon their final passage shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose and shall be authenticated by the signature of the presiding officer and Clerk of Council, but failure to sign an ordinance or resolution for the purpose of authentication shall neither invalidate the ordinance nor impair its effectiveness.  All ordinances and resolutions of a general or permanent nature, or involving the expenditure of money in which no emergency is declared shall take effect thirty (30) days after their passage by Council.  Emergency ordinances, shall take effect, as provided by Section 12 of this Article V.

SECTION V-12.  EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
------------------------------------

An emergency measure is an ordinance or resolution necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety, or providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department, and shall take effect, unless a later time be specified therein, upon passage by Council and the signature of the Mayor, or upon the expiration of the time within which it may be disapproved by the Mayor, or upon its passage after disapproval by the Mayor, as the case may be.  Ordinances providing for the appropriation of money, or for an annual tax levy, or for improvements petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the front footage of the property benefited and to be specially assessed therefor, may be passed as and take effect at the same time as emergency measures.  No action of the Council in authorizing any change in the boundaries of the Municipality, or the surrender or joint exercise of any of its powers, or in granting any franchise, or in contracting for the supply to the Municipality or its inhabitants, of the product or service of any utility, whether municipally owned or not, shall ever be passed as an emergency measure.  Emergency ordinances and resolutions, shall only be passed by a 2/3 vote of all the members elected to the Council and the reasons for declaring such ordinance or resolution an emergency measure shall be set forth, in the preamble or in one section of the ordinance or resolution.

SECTION V-13.  SALARIES AND BONDS.
----------------------------------

The Council shall have the power to fix the salary of its own members and of each officer, employee and member of any department, board, or commission of the Municipality whether elected or appointed, except as otherwise provided in this Charter.  Any such person may be required by the Council, from time to time to furnish bond in such sum as the Council shall determine and with such surety as shall be approved by the Mayor; and the Council may provide that the premium for any such bond shall be paid the Municipality.  The compensation of the Mayor, each member of the Council, and any other elected official shall be fixed at least thirty (30) days before the time for the filing of the nominating petitions for the terms beginning on the next succeeding first day of January, and shall not thereafter be diminished or increased during such terms.
