
Article IV
==========

MAYOR
-----

SECTION IV-1.  TERM OF OFFICE.
------------------------------

The Mayor shall be elected at the regular Municipal election in the year 1985, and every fourth year thereafter for a term of four (4) years; he shall assume office on the first day of January following his election:  and shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified.
(Amended November 5, 1985)

SECTION IV-2.  QUALIFICATIONS.
------------------------------

The Mayor shall have been for at least three (3) years prior to his election and shall continue to be a resident of the Municipality and he shall have been a qualified elector of same.  The Mayor shall be a fulltime Mayor and shall not hold any other public office, private employment or engage in any private business, except that of notary public, membership in the State militia or reserve corps of the United States.  The newly elected Mayor shall divest himself of any responsibilities of any business within six (6) months from election day.
(Amended November 4, 1980)

SECTION IV-3.  JUDICIAL POWERS.
-------------------------------

The Mayor shall have all the judicial powers granted by the general laws of the State of Ohio, to mayors of the class of this Municipality.

SECTION IV-4.  LEGISLATIVE POWERS.
----------------------------------

The Mayor shall attend all meetings and be entitled to a seat in Council.  He shall not have a vote in Council, but shall have the right to introduce ordinances and resolutions and to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council.

SECTION IV-5.  VETO.
--------------------

All ordinances and resolutions of the Council shall be signed by its presiding officer and attested by the Clerk of Council.  They shall be presented to the Mayor, by the Clerk, within forty-eight (48) hours after passage by the Council.  If the Mayor approves such ordinance or resolution, he shall sign it forthwith and return it to Council.  If he does not approve it, he shall return it within ten (10) days after it is presented to him, with a statement of his objections to the Council, who shall enter his objections on its Journal.  The Council may then reconsider the vote on the passage of such legislation not later than at its next regular meeting.  If, on reconsideration, it is approved by two thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to Council, it shall become effective.  If any ordinance or resolution shall not be returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after it was presented to him, it shall become effective in the same manner as if he had signed it.  The Mayor may disapprove any item or items of an ordinance making an appropriation of money, and item or items so disapproved shall be void unless repassed by the Council in the manner herein prescribed.

SECTION IV-6.  EXECUTIVE POWER OF THE MAYOR.
--------------------------------------------

The Mayor shall appoint the various department executives, subject to the approvals provided in this Charter, namely that of the Director of Law, Director of Finance, Director of Public Safety, Director of Parks, Recreation and Public Lands, and Director of Public Service, all within thirty (30) days after assuming office.  He shall make such other appointments as provided by this Charter.  In the case of resignation, death, or removal of any appointed official, the power of appointing a replacement shall remain with the Mayor providing such appointment is made within thirty (30) days.  These appointments of the Mayor, except as otherwise provided in this Charter, shall become official only when the Council has approved of the appointments by a two thirds (2/3) vote of all the members elected to Council.  If the Mayor submits the name of any person or persons for the above named offices or appointments, and the Council fails to act within thirty (30) days on approving or rejecting the name or names for appointment, the name or names of the Mayor's appointments shall become effective as though they had received the approved vote of the Council.  If the Council rejects any person or persons named as an appointee of the Mayor within the thirty (30) day period, it shall then become the duty of the Mayor to immediately make another appointment or appointments before or at the next regular Council meeting.  The Mayor shall be the chief conservator of the peace within the City, and shall see that all ordinances, resolutions and laws are faithfully obeyed and enforced.  The Council shall receive from the Mayor and the Director of Finance, on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of November of each year an annual estimate of revenues and expenditures for the succeeding year and he shall advise the Council as to the financial condition and needs of the Municipality including necessary  appropriation measures.  The Mayor, along with the Director of Finance, shall execute on behalf of the City, all contracts, conveyances, evidences of indebtedness, and other instruments to which the City is a party and shall at the first regular meeting in January report to Council concerning the affairs of the City.  (Amended November 8, 2005)

SECTION IV-7.  REMOVAL.
-----------------------

The Council may remove the Mayor for gross misconduct, malfeasance, misfeasance, and nonfeasance in or disqualification for office, or for the conviction, while in office, of a crime involving moral turpitude, or for violation of his oath of office, provided however, that such removal shall not take place without the concurrence of at least two thirds (2/3) vote of all the members elected to Council nor until the Mayor shall have been notified in writing of the charge against him at least ten (10) days in advance of any hearing upon such charge, and he or his counsel has been given an opportunity to be heard, present evidence, or examine any witness or witnesses in support of said charge.

SECTION IV-8.  VACANCY.
-----------------------

If, and during any period, the Mayor shall be absent from the City or for any other cause is unable to perform his duties, or the office of Mayor otherwise becomes vacant, the President of Council shall fill such vacancy, temporary or permanent, as provided in Article V, Section 6, of this Charter.
