Article I
=========

PREAMBLE
--------
 
We, the people of the City of Eastlake, in the County of Lake, and State of Ohio, within the boundaries, as now established in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Ohio, and as incorporated in this Charter, do hereby adopt this Charter for the government of the City of Eastlake in order to secure the benefits of municipal home rule and to exercise all the powers of local self-government under the Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio.

SECTION I-1.  NAMES AND BOUNDARIES.
-----------------------------------

The Municipality now existing in the County of Lake, State of Ohio, and known as the City of Eastlake, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of the City of Eastlake, with the same boundaries as now exist, but with power and authority to change its boundaries in the manner authorized by the laws of the State of Ohio, except that no territory shall be detached from or annexed to or merged with, any body politic, nor shall the corporate existence of the City of Eastlake be terminated, without the assent of a majority of the electors of the City voting on such proposal.  Any such question shall be submitted to the electors at a regular municipal or general election in such manner as the Council shall by resolution or ordinance prescribe.

SECTION I-2.  POWERS.
---------------------

The Municipality shall have all the powers of local self-government now or hereafter granted to municipalities by the Constitution of the State of Ohio, and such further powers as are now or hereafter granted by the laws of the State of Ohio; and all such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter, or, to the extent that the manner is not prescribed herein, in such manner as the Council may prescribe by ordinance.  Powers of the Municipality may also be exercised, except as a contrary intent appears in this Charter or in the enactments of the Council conformably hereto, in such manner as may now or hereafter be provided by the general laws of Ohio.  Enumeration of, or reference to particular powers by this Charter shall not be construed to be exclusive.

