
Article XI
==========

MISCELLANEOUS
-------------

SECTION XI-1.  MILITARY SERVICE.
--------------------------------

Except as hereafter in this section provided, if a person holding an elective office in the Municipality shall be called into active military service during his elective term, his office shall thereupon become vacant, and it shall be filled as provided by this Charter.  Membership in military reserve or State militia shall not create a vacancy in office unless the office holder be called to full time military service for a period exceeding thirty (30) consecutive days.

SECTION XI-2.  EFFECT OF CHARTER.
---------------------------------

All general laws of the State of Ohio as now or hereafter enacted which are not in conflict with this Charter, as now enacted or hereafter amended, or with any ordinance enacted hereunder shall apply to the government of the Municipality; and all ordinances, resolutions and bylaws in force in the Municipality at the time when this Charter takes effect which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed.
The taking effect of this Charter shall not affect any pre-existing rights of the Municipality, nor any right or liability or pending suit or provision either on behalf of or against the Municipality, nor any contract entered into by the Municipality, nor any franchise granted by the Municipality, nor pending proceedings for the authorization of public improvements or the levy of assessments therefor.

SECTION XI-3.  WORDS HELD TO BE INCLUSIVE.
------------------------------------------

Masculine pronouns used in this Charter shall be construed to include the feminine pronoun, and the singular number shall be construed to include the plural number whenever the context shall require.  The word “elected” includes an appointed person as the position would have been an elected position. 
(Amended November 2, 2010)

SECTION XI-4.  PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
----------------------------------

The determination that any section or part thereof of this Charter is invalid, shall not invalidate nor impair the force or effect of any other section or part thereof, except to the extent that such other section or part thereof is dependent for its operation upon the part declared invalid; and in the event any section or sections or parts thereof shall be held invalid, then the laws of the State of Ohio pertaining to municipalities and dealing with the same subject matter shall apply.

SECTION XI-5.  AMENDMENT TO CHARTER.
------------------------------------

The Council may by a vote of at least 2/3 vote of all its members; submit to the electors of the Municipality amendments to this Charter; and, upon petition being presented to Council setting forth a proposed amendment, signed by not less than that number of resident and qualified electors of the Municipality which equal ten (10) percent of the number of qualified electors of the Municipality.  Such proposed amendment shall be submitted to the electors of the Municipality for adoption or rejection.  The submission of a proposed amendment to the electors shall be governed by the provisions of the Constitution of the State of Ohio, and to such extent as the Constitution shall fail to provide therefor, the Council shall determine the manner of such submission.  If any amendment so submitted is approved by a majority of the electors voting thereon, its provisions shall be incorporated into this Charter; except that if two or more inconsistent amendments on the same subject matter are submitted at the same election, only the one receiving the largest affirmative vote, not less than a majority, of the votes cast on the subject matter, shall become incorporated into this Charter.

SECTION XI-6.  CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION.
-----------------------------------------

During the month of January, 2010, and at least every ten (10) years thereafter, Council shall establish a Charter Review Commission charged with the review and suggested revisions, if necessary, of the City of Eastlake Charter.  This Commission shall consist of seven (7) qualified electors residing in the City of Eastlake.  The Commission will include two (2) members who shall be appointed by the Mayor, two (2) members who will be appointed by the President of Council, one (1) member of Council who will be appointed by the President of Council and two (2) members who will be appointed by Council-as-a-Whole.

The appointed terms will be for a period of one calendar year and will not be compensated.  A report generated by this Commission will be issued to Council prior to the conclusion of the terms of appointment.  All records, reports and minutes shall be forwarded with the final report and shall be retained by the Council office.
(Added November 7, 2000)

SECTION XI-7.  EFFECTIVE DATE.
------------------------------

For the purpose of electing officers and holding and conducting Municipal elections, this Charter shall take effect at the next regular Municipal election to be held the first Tuesday in November in the year 1955; except that those candidates filing for such public offices provided for in this Charter shall submit their petition of candidacy to the Board of Elections of Lake County, Ohio, ninety (90) days before the aforementioned date in compliance with Article II, Section 1, of this Charter.  For all other purposes other than the election of Municipal officers, this Charter shall take effect on the first day of January in the year 1954 upon its approval by the electors of the Municipality.

We, the undersigned, being a majority of the members of the Charter Commission of the City of Eastlake, have framed this Charter to be voted upon at the regular Municipal election to be held on the third day of November, 1953.

John M. Barrett, Chairman

Joseph Pizzie
Earl Davis, Vice Chairman

Harry Roberts
Elsie DeJean

Thomas Shipley
Laurence Moss

Patrick Stillisano
Roland Baskin, Legal Counselor

Helen Page, Secretary
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF EASTLAKE
