# Chapter 505 - Animals and Fowl

## 505.01   Dogs and other animals running at large. 

(a)   No person being the owner or having charge of cattle, horses, swine, sheep, geese, ducks, goats, turkeys, chickens or other fowl or animals shall permit them to run at large upon any public place, or upon any unenclosed lands or upon the premises of another.
(ORC 951.02)

(b)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is in heat, unless the dog is properly in leash.

(c)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to keep it either physically confined or restrained upon the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether<ins> as provided for in Section 501.072</ins>, adequate fence, supervision or secure enclosure to prevent escape, or under reasonable control of some person.  Any police officer or dog warden is authorized to enter private property to capture such dog.
(ORC 955.22)

(d)   The running at large of any such animal in or upon any of the places mentioned in this section is prima-facie evidence that it is running at large in violation of this section. 
(ORC 951.02)

(e)   Whoever violates this subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.  (ORC 951.99)

(f)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (b) or (c) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each subsequent offense.

(2)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in subsection (f)(1) hereof, if the offender is guilty of a violation of subsection (b) or (c) hereof, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the dog that he owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.  (ORC 955.99)

## 505.02   Impounding and disposition; records.

(a)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every animal or dog found in violation of Section 505.01.  If the dog is not wearing a valid registration tag and the owner is not otherwise reasonably determined, notice shall be posted in the pound or animal shelter both describing the dog and place where seized and advising the unknown owner that unless the dog is redeemed within three days, it may thereafter be sold or destroyed according to law.  If the dog is wearing a valid registration tag or the identity of the owner, keeper or harborer is otherwise reasonably determined, notice shall be given by certified mail to such owner, keeper or harborer that the dog has been impounded and unless redeemed within fourteen days of the date of notice, it may thereafter be sold or destroyed according to law.  Any dog seized and impounded may be redeemed by its owner, keeper or harborer at any time prior to the applicable redemption period upon payment of all lawful costs assessed against the animal and upon providing the dog with a valid registration tag if it has none.

(b)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the owner's name and address where known, and a statement of any costs assessed against the dog shall be kept by any poundkeeper.

## 505.03   Annual registration of dogs; tags required.

(a)   Except for guide dogs registered under Ohio R.C. 955.011 and dogs kept by an institution or organization for teaching and research purposes under Ohio R.C. 955.16, no person shall own, keep or harbor a dog more than three months of age without annually registering such dog with the County Auditor.  Failure of any dog at any time to wear a valid registration tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and subject such dog to impounding and disposition as provided by Ohio R.C. 955.16.

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each subsequent offense.  (ORC 955.99(D)).

## 505.04   Abandoning animals.

(a)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall abandon such animal.  (ORC 959.01)

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 959.99)

## 505.05   Killing or injuring animals.

(a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of the owner, kill or injure a farm animal, dog, cat or other domestic animal that is the property of another.  This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an official capacity.  (ORC 959.02)

(b)   Whoever violates this section, if the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to less than three hundred dollars ($300.00), is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; if the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to three hundred dollars ($300.00) or more, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. 
(ORC 959.99(B))

## 505.06   Poisoning animals.

(a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such capacity, to a farm animal, dog, cat, poultry or other domestic animal that is the property of another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner, place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any of such animals, either upon his own lands or the lands of another. 
(ORC 959.03)

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 959.99(C))

## 505.07   Cruelty to animals generally.

(a)   No person shall:

(1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an animal without supplying it during such confinement with a sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water;

(2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during such confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise become sick or in some other way suffer.  This subsection (a)(2) does not apply to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter.  For the purpose of this section, "shelter" means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree development or vegetation;

(3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;

(4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;

(5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than twenty-eight hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food, water and attention, nor permit such livestock to be so crowded as to overlie, crush, wound or kill each other.

(b)    Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of time in which such livestock may be detained in any cars or compartments without food, water and attention, may be extended to thirty-six hours without penalty therefor.  This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
(ORC 959.13)

(c)     Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 959.99(D))

## 505.071   Cruelty to companion animals.   

(a)   As used in this section:

(1)   "Companion animal" means any animal that is kept inside a residential dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept.  "Companion animal" does not include livestock or any wild animal.

(2)   "Cruelty", "torment" and "torture" have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 1717.01.

(3)   "Residential dwelling" means a structure or shelter or the portion of a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a habitation.

(4)   "Practice of veterinary medicine" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4741.01.

(5)   "Wild animal" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1531.01.

(6)   "Federal animal welfare act" means the "Laboratory Animal Act of 1966", Pub.  L.  No.  89-544, 80 Stat.  350 (1966), 7 U.S.C.A. 2131 et seq., as amended by the "Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub.  L.  No.  91-579, 84 Stat.  1560 (1970), the "Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L.  No.  94-279, 90 Stat.  417 (1976), and the "Food Security Act of 1985", Pub.  L.  No.  99-198, 99 Stat.  1354 (1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.

(7)   "Dog kennel" means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under Ohio R.C. 956.06, a boarding kennel or a training kennel.

(b)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against a companion animal.

(c)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:

(1)   Commit any act by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;

(2)   Omit any act of care by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;

(3)   Commit any act of neglect by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;

(4)   Needlessly kill the companion animal;

(5)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, confine the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, or impound or confine the companion animal without affording it, during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold, wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a result of or due to the deprivation, confinement, or impoundment in any of those specified manners.

(d)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:

(1)   Commit any act by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;

(2)   Omit any act of care by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable relief, against the companion animal;

(3)   Commit any act of neglect by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to continue, when there is a reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;

(4)   Needlessly kill the companion animal;

(5)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, confine the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, or impound or confine the companion animal without affording it, during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold, wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a result of or due to the deprivation, confinement, or impoundment or confinement in any of those specified manners.

(e)   Subsections (b), (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to any of the following:

(1)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related regulations;

(2)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741;

(3)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;

(4)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the training of animals;

(5)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
(ORC 959.131)

(f)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense.  On each subsequent offense such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.

(2)   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each subsequent offense.

(3)   Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.

(4)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section to forfeit to an impounding agency, as defined in Ohio R.C. 959.132, any or all of the companion animals in that person's ownership or care.  The court also may prohibit or place limitations on the person's ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.

B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not otherwise paid under Ohio R.C. 959.132.

(5)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.  The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling. 
(ORC 959.99)


## 505.08   Nuisance conditions prohibited.

(a)   No person shall keep or harbor any domestic animal in the City so as to permit the commission or evidence of a nuisance as hereinafter defined.

(b)   Any domestic animal which disturbs the peace and quiet or endangers the repose or health of persons by biting or by frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping or which scratches or digs in or urinates or defecates upon any lawn, tree, shrub, plant, building or any other property, private or public other than the property of the owner or person in charge or control of such domestic animal is hereby declared to be a nuisance.  For purposes of this section, the owner or person who has under his control more than three full grown dogs in a residential area is creating a nuisance.

(c)   On complaint of any person to the police that a domestic animal harbored or kept in the City disturbs the peace and quiet or damages property in the manner as specified above, the police shall issue notice of such complaint to the person owning, keeping or permitting such domestic animal to be kept.

(d)   No person, being the owner or in charge or control of any domestic animal shall allow or permit such domestic animal to commit a nuisance on any school grounds, City park or other public property, or upon any private property other than that of the owner or person in charge or control of such domestic animal without the permission of the owner of the property.

(e)   The owner of any animal, when such animal is off the owner’s property, shall be responsible for the removal of any feces deposited by such animal on public walks, streets, recreation areas or private property.  No owner shall fail to remove or provide for the removal of such feces before taking such animal from the immediate area where such defecation occurred.

(f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1996-007.  Passed 1-23-96.)

## 505.09   Barking or howling dogs.

(a)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the Municipality which, by frequent and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the Municipality.  Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure, which he occupies or owns, shall be considered as harboring such dog.

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

## 505.10   Animal bites; reports and quarantine.

(a)    Whenever any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, report of such bite shall be made to the Health Commissioner within twenty-four hours. Whenever it is reported to the Health Commissioner that any dog or cat has bitten a person, that dog or cat shall be quarantined under an order issued by the Health Commissioner.  The dog or cat shall be quarantined by its owner or by a harborer, or shall be quarantined in a pound or kennel.  In all cases, such quarantine shall be under the supervision of the Health Commissioner and shall be at the expense of the owner or harborer.  Quarantine shall continue until the Health Commissioner determines that the dog or cat is not afflicted with rabies.  The quarantine period hereby required shall not be less than ten days from the date on which the person was bitten.  If at any time during the quarantine, the Health Commissioner requires the dog or cat to be examined for symptoms of rabies, then the examination shall be by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine.  The veterinarian shall report to the Health Commissioner the conclusions reached as a result of the examinations.  The examination by a veterinarian shall be at the expense of the owner or harborer.  No dog or cat shall be released from the required quarantine unless and until it has been properly vaccinated against rabies.

No person shall fail to comply with the requirements of this section or with any order of the Health Commissioner made pursuant thereto, nor fail to immediately report to the Health Commissioner any symptoms or behavior suggestive of rabies.

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

## 505.11   Hunting and trapping prohibited.

(a)   No person shall hunt by the use of a gun, rifle, pistol, bow and arrow, air rifle or otherwise, or trap on any lands or waters within the City, or by any such means shoot, shoot at, capture, kill or injure any wild fowl or wild animal within the City.

(b)   Subsection (a) hereof shall not apply to the City of Eastlake’s designee or to Lake County Game Warden or to his designee.

(c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1996-160.  Passed 5-28-96.)

## 505.12   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; sale or display of poultry.

(a)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry, including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings.  No person shall sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or poultry which has been dyed or otherwise colored.  No poultry younger than four weeks of age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of less than six.  Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(ORC 925.62)

(b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

## 505.13   Report of escape of exotic or dangerous animal.

(a)   The owner or keeper of any member of a species of the animal kingdom that escapes from his custody or control and that is not indigenous to this State or presents a risk of serious physical harm to persons or property, or both, shall, within one hour after he discovers or reasonably should have discovered the escape, report it to:

(1)   A law enforcement officer of the Municipality and the sheriff of the county where the escape occurred; and

(2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Legislative Authority.

(b)   If the office of the Clerk of the Legislative Authority is closed to the public at the time a report is required by subsection (a) hereof, then it is sufficient compliance with subsection (a) hereof if the owner or keeper makes the report within one hour after the office is next open to the public.

(c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.  (ORC 2927.21)

## 505.14   Wild, dangerous, exotic, endangered or undomesticated animals prohibited.


(a)   No person shall keep, raise, possess, harbor or maintain a wild, dangerous, exotic, endangered or undomesticated animal within the City.  Exempt from this section are state licensed medical and educational institutions and duly licensed pet stores.

(b)   A "wild, dangerous, exotic or undomesticated animal" means an animal whose natural habitat is the wilderness where they live untamed, uncontrolled, unrestricted and reproduce without the help of humans.

(c)   An "endangered animal" is one that is identified by either the state or federal agencies as a member of the endangered species.

(d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2015-023.  Passed 3-10-15.)


## 505.99   Penalty.

(EDITOR'S NOTE:  See Section 501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
